# Ralphie

A set of tools for cli and keybindings, written in
Clojure/[Babashka](https://github.com/borkdude/babashka/).

## Ralphie?

This library was nearly named `bb-gun` as a reference to `babashka`'s `bb`
command. I left it to squat less on `bb`, as this is more of an application
than library. But be warned, this one will shoot your eye out!

> Ralphie as Adult: [narrating] Meanwhile, I struggled for exactly the right BB
> gun hint. It had to be firm, but subtle.
>
> Ralphie: Flick says he saw some grizzly bears near Pulaski's candy store!
>
> [Everyone stares at Ralphie]
>
> Ralphie as Adult: [narrating] They looked at me as if I had lobsters crawling
> out of my ears.

This mostly speaks to Ralphie knowing he wants to write something in Babashka,
whether there are bears near Pulaski's or not.

# Status

Untested on other machines, and not yet configurable. You could clone and modify
it to work, but this is not a plug-n-play tool yet.

One blocker: a different approach to running the tool is necessary, as it
currently changes into a hard-coded directory to run. I thought Babashaka's
`--uberscript` option would suffice for this, but my attempts have not yet made
that work.

Another blocker: the paths in `ralphie.config` are hard-coded for now, but
could/should be read from a config somewhere.

# Background

Ralphie's main goal is to reduce the overhead of automating common dev tasks.
Babashka has made it possible to write clojure where you might otherwise fall
back to Bash - Ralphie is my attempt to rewrite my bash scripts in a way that is
more maintainable (i.e. in clojure).

Ralphie provides a registry-macro `defcom` which can be used to create a
command. It then exposes all of its commands both on the command line and via
[rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi).

My current setup includes firing ralphie commands from i3, and mapping `ralphie
rofi` to `super+x`. I hope to treat it like `M-x` in Emacs.

I like to think of `ralphie` as a clojure version of the use-case
[Alfred](https://www.alfredapp.com/) filled on OSX.

# Features

This section is generated by `ralphie`'s [build-readme
command](https://github.com/russmatney/ralphie/blob/e67ab9be12731ff0d6418a63357053b6e841f2a4/src/ralphie/readme.clj#L44),
which was an experiment that may have run its course.

This list contains wip-commands as well.

### TODO clean up this feature list

Many of these are wips, or their usage examples are not useful.
